[MUSIC]
Now that we have designed an algorithm for
multiway cut, we need to analyze it.
First, it is clear that our
algorithm runs in polynomial time.
Also, clear that it outputs
a proper multiway cut.
So the question is,
how good is the output?
How good is the output?
The value of the objective is
the sum of every edge, of cuv
times 1, if and only if,
the edge crosses the cut.
So, our algorithm is randomized.
As usual, we look at the expected
value of the output.
By linearity of expectation, we can invert
the summation and the expected sign.
So, the expected value of the output is
the sum of every edge in the graph of
cuv times the expected value of
the random variable, which is 1,
if and only if, the edge crosses the cut.
So what does this give us?
The probability that uv is in the output.
You should be used to this by now.
We have already used
this trick several times.
The linearity of expectation is very,
very good to enable us to
treat things independently.
So because of that, all we need to
do is focus on the particular edge,
uv, in the graph.
A particular pair of vertices, u and v.
And look at the probability that uv,
edge uv, is in the output cut.
So, we can forget about
the rest of the embedding.
Just think about u and v.
Now, remember how our rounding works.
Our rounding,
in the case of k equal to three, chooses
a random order of the three terminals.
Let's call a the first terminal, b,
the second one, c, the third one.
It's easy in the case of k equal to 3,
easier to use these kind of notations.
So in the case of a drawing,
u belongs to the first ball centered at a.
v belongs to the third part centered at c,
and
therefore, will have to pay the cost
cuv because edge uv crosses the cut.
What is the condition, in general,
for uv belonging to the output?
Well, either the first ball,
the green ball, contains exactly
one of the two vertices, u and v.
That is, either the radius r,
is between the min and
the max of the two distances
from u to a and from v to a,
or neither u nor
v was placed in the first ball but exactly
one of them is placed in the second ball.
That is, how can it be that neither u nor
v are placed in the first ball?
It must be that r is small.
r, the radius of the first ball,
is smaller than the main distance to a.
And then, it must be that r is in between,
in terms of the second distances,
between the min and
the max of their distances to terminal b.
So these are ideal conditions.
uv is in the output,
if and only if, one or
the other of these two
disjoint conditions are met.
So, now we need to analyze
the probability of these two conditions.
Let's see.
How can it be that ai, terminal ai,
is the first one to catch u or v,
and it catches exactly one of them?
Well, there's a particular
terminal there that is lucky.
It has better luck than the others.
Let's look at the terminal that
is closest to either u or v.
That is, for each terminal, let's look
at the min distance from u to ai and
from v to ai,
the min of these two quantities.
That's how big r needs to be in
order to catch at least one of them.
Okay, look at this for every terminal, and
then look at the terminal
that minimizes this quantity.
That's terminal l.
In the case of our drawing, v is quite
close to this this terminal, so that's l.
And this is the min distance
here from u or v to l.
So, r needs to be at least as big in order
to have a chance of catching u or v.
Okay, so if we look at terminal i,
what are the chances that terminal i
will get one or the other of u or v?
First, in the random ordering,
i must precede l.
It must precede l because if it comes
after l in the order of the terminals in
the random permutation, then l will
get first shot, will have priority.
And if l fails to catch them,
then i will also fail to catch them.
Now, i has no chance to catch exactly
one of them if l already didn't do it.
Okay.
So, i must have priority over l,
i must precede l.
Moreover, the ball centered at ai and
of radius r must separate u from v,
must catch exactly one of them.
So, they're not sufficient conditions
because other terminals might come into
play, but certainly, these two conditions
are necessary in order for one of the two
terminals to be in the ball centered
at ai and the other one to be outside,
caught exactly at the time when
we considered terminal ai.
All right, so
now we know the probability of this event.
Why?
Because these two conditions, i precedes
l and this ball separates vertices u and
v, these two conditions,
they are independent of each other.
The first one, for a random ordering,
i and l play the same role.
The probability that i precedes
l is exactly one-half.
The second one, for r,
a random radius between 0 and 1,
the probability that the ball centered
at ai and of radius r separates u from v
is the difference between the two
distances from ai to u and from ai to v.
So for every terminal i different from l,
we have this upper
bound on the probability that when we deal
with terminal i, we separate u from v.
Second case, i equal to l.
i equal to l, then how can it be
that when we consider terminal l and
throw the ball centered at l and
of radius r, we separate u from v?
Well, first l must not
be the last terminal,
because the last terminal doesn't
have a chance to draw ball.
Okay, and then when it comes up,
its ball must separate u from v.
Again, these two events
are independent of one another.
What is the probability that
l is not the last terminal?
For k equal to 3, it's two-thirds.
We have a random permutation.
For k general, it's 1 minus 1 over k.
Then, what is the probability
that the ball separates them?
Again, it's the difference between
the two distances from al.
So, now we have our expressions where
we have used these joint events,
independent events,
multiplying probabilities, summing,
we can proceed together.
Together the probability that uv is in
the output is cuz of the terminal l.
1 minus 1 over k times the difference
of distances from u and
v to al plus, for
every terminal i different from l,
the sum of 1/2 times the difference
of distances from ai to u and to v.
Now, what is nice is that here, what we
see is we almost have the entire sum.
So, let's do a little bit
of a calculation here.
Let's take part of this quantity here,
let's take 1/2 out of this,
and let's bring it in here.
This way we'll have a sum,
not just over i different from l, but
over every i, i equal to l, i different
from l, all possible terminals.
So, the right-hand side will become
sum over all possible terminals of
1/2 times the difference of distances,
and the left-hand
side becomes the first part of
the expression, becomes what's left.
That is,
1/2(1- 2/k) times this difference.
Okay, so now what is this?
The second part is nice,
the last expression.
What is it?
It is the sum over i of 1/2 times the
difference between the ith coordinates,
d l1 metric.
So, this is very close to the objective
function of the LP relaxation.
We are in good shape here.
What about the first term?
The first term, well again, we have
the difference between the l coordinates
of the two embedded vertices u and v.
So, we need to do a little bit more work.
For that,
we need to analyze this expression ul- vl.
How can we upper bound it?
Observe.
Observe, you have this triangle.
All the vertices on the triangle satisfy
the sum of the coordinates are equal to 1.
It's true for u, it's true for v.
So, if you look at ul- vl,
the difference between their coordinates,
the l coordinates,
it's at most one-half of the l1 distance.
Why?
Well, with so many examples of this,
imagine, for example,
that ul is 0.6, vl is 0.5.
ul- vl is 0.1.
Even if they're as equal as
possible in the other coordinates,
the other coordinates must sum to 0.4 for
ul, 0.5 for vl.
For example, u could be 0.6, 0.4, 0.0.
v could be 0.5, 0.5, 0.0.
And then what do we have?
ul- vl is 0.1, but
the l1 distance is 0.1 plus 0.1 plus 0,
two times 0.1.
And actually, that's the best you can do.
ul- vl can never be more than half
of the sum of the ui's- vi's,
can never be more than
half of the l1 distance.
So let's take this upper bound and
plug it into our calculation.
Together, the probability that at uv is in
the output is (1/2- 1/k) times (ul-
vl) + 1/2 of the sum over i of ui- vi.
Replace ul- vl by half of the l1 distance.
Half times one-half, basically,
let's ignore the 1/k for a moment,
half times one-half, that's one-quarter.
So, we have one-quarter here,
one-half there, so
that's three-quarters,
three-quarters of the sum of i
of ui- vi plus a little bit
left over that depends on k.
So, what we get is (3/2- 1/k)
* 1/2 of the l1 distance.
Again, these one-halves,
these vectors of two,
they're kind of a bother to deal with.
There kind of a bother, because you're
almost sure to forget one along the way.
It's a little bit like programming.
Doing this proof that this calculation,
it's a little like coding.
You have to be careful.
Every step, you have to make sure
you never forget a factor of 2,
otherwise your final result will be wrong.
But the idea is still correct, but
big deal if you can't really prove it.
Okay, so let's put all this together.
The expected value of the output
is the sum of every edge
in the graph of cuv times the probability
that uv is in the output.
The probability that uv is in
the output is at most (3/2-
1/k) * 1/2 of the l1
distance between u and v.
Now, let's take out the 3/2- 1/k.
And what do we get?
We get the objective function.
We'd get exactly the objective
of the LP relaxation.
So we know,
by definition of the relaxation,
that that value is at most, OPT.
And so, what we have proved is
the expected value of the output
is at most 3/2- 1/k * OPT.
And so,
what have we proved in this analysis?
We've proved that by doing
linear programming and
randomized rounding guided by the
geometric interpretation of the problem,
we can get the 3/2- 1/k approximation for
the multiway cut problem.
Now, what do we need to do next?
We're going to try to do better, and
we're going to see the story
behind this problem.